Initial work to add the import blog post (#4640)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/introducing-pulumi-import-command/index.md

---
title: "Introducing The Pulumi Import Command"
date: "2020-11-23"
meta_desc: "Introducing the new pulumi import command that will scaffold your Pulumi application code."
authors: ["paul-stack"]
tags: ["import","New-Features", "Pulumi-News", "Features"]
---

> In June 2019, Pulumi introduced the ability to import existing infrastructure resources to be part of Pulumi management.

Reviewer: It would be nice to have something here that explains why we did this. Something like (needs more fleshing out)

"Pulumi users often have existing cloud infrastructure they'd like to import into their infrastructure as code. Importing these resources can often be an arduous task, so we're excited to announce a new richer import experience which makes adding existing cloud resources to your Pulumi program easier than ever"

Author: Ok, I re-worded this section!

Today, we are happy to announce a richer resource import experience.

As of [v2.12.0](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#2120-2020-10-14), Pulumi has introduced

> a `pulumi import` command. This command will not only import the resource, but it will also ensure that the user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a `pulumi import` command. This command will import the cloud resource into the Pulumi state and generate the code for the user's Pulumi program
```

can have the resource code, in the appropriate language, available for their use.

> 

Reviewer: Ambitious, but could we add a gif here?

```csharp
using Pulumi;
using Aws = Pulumi.Aws;

class MyStack : Stack
{
    public MyStack()
    {
        var demo = new Aws.S3.Bucket("infra-logs", new Aws.S3.BucketArgs
        {
            Acl = "private",
            Bucket = "company-infra-logs",
            ForceDestroy = false,
        }, new CustomResourceOptions
        {
            Protect = true,
        });
    }

}
```
{{< /choosable >}}
{{< /chooser >}}

This is valid Pulumi application code and can be added to your Pulumi application. Notice that the Pulumi resource is
marked as `protect: true`. This means Pulumi will not delete that resource unless this protection attribute is removed
from the resource. If this code is not added to your Pulumi application, then a Pulumi update will return the following:

```bash
Diagnostics:
  pulumi:pulumi:Stack (import-example-dev):
    error: preview failed

  aws:s3:Bucket (demo):
    error: Preview failed: refusing to delete protected resource 'urn:pulumi:dev::import-example::aws:s3/bucket:Bucket::infra-logs'
```

## Importing Multiple Resources

Should a user need to import multiple resources to be managed by Pulumi, the CLI `import command` can handle this

> scenario for us. We can assemble all of the resources into a JSON document as follows:

Reviewer 2: "This is helpful when using the `pulumi import` command as part of scripting larger bulk imports of cloud resource"

---
title: "Introducing The Pulumi Import Command"
date: "2020-11-23"
meta_desc: "Introducing the new pulumi import command that will scaffold your Pulumi application code."
authors: ["paul-stack"]
tags: ["import","New-Features", "Pulumi-News", "Features"]
---

Most infrastructure projects require working with existing cloud resources, either by building on top of existing resources
or adopting existing resources under management with a new and more robust infrastructure provisioning solution.

In June 2019, Pulumi introduced the ability to [import existing infrastructure resources to be under Pulumi management](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/guides/adopting/import/)
no matter how you’ve provisioned these resources — manually in your cloud provider’s console or CLI, using an infrastructure
as code tool like Terraform or AWS CloudFormation. Today, we are happy to announce a richer resource import experience.

As of [v2.12.0](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#2120-2020-10-14), Pulumi has introduced
a `pulumi import` command. This command will import the cloud resource into the Pulumi state and generate the code

> for the user's Pulumi program, in the appropriate language.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
for the user's Pulumi program in the appropriate language.
```

<!--more-->

## The Anatomy of the Import Command

No matter how resources have been provisioned in the cloud, Pulumi enables you to adopt and manage those resources as
part of your infrastructure project. The `pulumi import` command is made of the following:

```bash
pulumi import [type] [name] [id]
```

> When Pulumi performs an import the resource is added to the Pulumi [state](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/state/#state),

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When Pulumi performs an import, the resource is added to the Pulumi [state](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/state/#state),
```

> it is marked as a [protected](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/programming-model/#protect) resource (by default)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
it is marked as a [protected](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/programming-model/#protect) resource (by default),
```

and it will emit the generated code that the user can add to their program before running a `pulumi up`. The resources are

> marked as protected to ensure that imported infrastructure is not accidentally deleted in case the user forgets to include

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
marked as protected to ensure that imported infrastructure is not accidentally deleted if the user forgets to include
```

the code for the resource in their program before doing a deployment.

### Importing an S3 Bucket

A resource needs to be imported into an existing Pulumi project. Let's consider that a user wants to import an S3 bucket

> that was manually created in their AWS Account. To do this, we can execute the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
manually created in their AWS Account. To do this, we can execute the following command:
```

            MapPublicIpOnLaunch = true,
            Tags =
            {
                { "Name", "pulumi-vpc-public-1" },
                { "Owner", "pulumi" },
                { "Project", "pulumi-k8s-aws-cluster" },
                { "kubernetes.io/role/elb", "1" },
                { "type", "public" },
            },
            VpcId = "vpc-0ad77710973388316",
        }, new CustomResourceOptions
        {
            Protect = true,
        });
        var private_1 = new Aws.Ec2.Subnet("private-1", new Aws.Ec2.SubnetArgs
        {
            AssignIpv6AddressOnCreation = false,
            CidrBlock = "172.16.160.0/19",
            MapPublicIpOnLaunch = false,
            Tags =
            {
                { "Name", "pulumi-vpc-private-1" },
                { "Owner", "pulumi" },
                { "Project", "pulumi-k8s-aws-cluster" },
                { "kubernetes.io/role/internal-elb", "1" },
                { "type", "private" },
            },
            VpcId = "vpc-0ad77710973388316",
        }, new CustomResourceOptions
        {
            Protect = true,
        });
    }

}
```

{{< /choosable >}}
{{< /chooser >}}

## Documentation

> Full CLI Documentation is [available](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/reference/cli/pulumi_import/) so that all of the different

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Full CLI Documentation is [available](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/reference/cli/pulumi_import/), showing all of the different
```

> import command flags can be examined. The flags include writing directly to a file and also specifing the ability to ensure

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
import command flags. The flags include writing directly to a file and the ability to ensure
```

> a resource is not protected on import. Examples of importing resources can be found on their specifc resource documentation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a resource is not protected on import. Examples of importing resources can be found in their specific resource documentation
```

> pages, such an example for importing a VPC can be found in the [VPC import documentation](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/reference/pkg/aws/ec2/vpc/#import).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
pages. Such an example for importing a VPC can be found in the [VPC import documentation](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/reference/pkg/aws/ec2/vpc/#import).
```

---

> title: "Introducing The Pulumi Import Command"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
title: "Automatically Create Infrastructure as Code by Importing Cloud Resources"
```

I'd suggest something that's appealing to a slightly broader audience than marketing to our existing users.

Author: 👍 
ok :)
